



            
            
                           Stereo Sound for Action!
            
            
                                 December 1989
            
                                      By
            
                                 Marty Albert
            
            
            
            This  document  and the Action! routines attached are in
            no  way  copyrighted.  They may be freely distributed to
            all  that  may  have  a  need for them. Please pass them
            around,  but  keep  this text file as part of the ARC to
            help folks along.
            
            
            
            One  of the most exciting things to happen for the Atari
            8-bits  in the last month or so of 1989 is the advent of
            the  Stereo  modification  by Chuck Steinman, nick named
            the "Gumby" mod.
            
            In  a  nut  shell, this modification adds a second POKEY
            chip  to  your  computer  and  allows  you  to  have two
            channels  of  4  voices  each. This leads to TRUE stereo
            sound  output  from  the  computer, something that Atari
            should have done years ago.
            
            
            These   five   Action!   routines   will  allow  Action!
            programmers to access the new voices in the same fashion
            as the original voices.
            
            
            Included here are four new routines:
            
                                     SndLo
                                     SndHi
                                     SRLo 
                                     SRHi 
                                     Gumby
            
            
            
            
                             Turning The Sound On
            
            
            The PROC SndLo is *exactly* the same as the current PROC













            Sound. It has simply been renamed to comply with the new
            PROC for the other channel.
            
            The  PROC  SndHi is the one that will let you access the
            new voices.
            
            
            For both PROCs, the command format is:
            
            
                 Snd??(Byte Voice, Pitch, Distortion, Volume)
            
            Where:
            
               Voice is a value from 0 to 3 for the voice you wish
                     to access
            
               Pitch is a value from 0 to 255, Low to High tones
            
               Distortion is a value from 0 to 14 (even only) with
                     10 being a "pure" tone
            
               Volume is a value from 0 to 16, from Low to High
                     volume
            
            
            In  other  words,  call these PROCs just like the normal
            Action!  library  call.  The only difference is that you
            now have access to TWO channels of 4 voices each.
            
            
            As  stated  above,  the  PROC  SndLo  is the same as the
            Action!  library PROC Sound. You need not use PROC SndLo
            unless  you  want  to,  but  I  find  that it makes life
            simpler to have the two commands with similar names.
            
            
            
            
                             Turning The Sound Off
            
            
            The  PROC  SRLo  is  *exactly*  the  same os the Action!
            library routine PROC SndRst. It has been renamed only to
            provide continuity.
            
            To  turn  off  the sound on one of the channels, use the
            command:
            
                                    SR??()
            
            This  will  reset  ALL voices for the channel to make no
            sound.













            
            
            Again,  you  need  not use the PROC SRLo since it is the
            same  as  the library PROC SndRst, but I find it simpler
            to do so.
            
            
            
            
                            Seeing If Gumby Is Home
            
            
            The  FUNC  Gumby  will  allow you to test for the second
            POKEY  chip  in  order  to let your program determine is
            Gumby has been installed. The call to this FUNC is:
            
                                 Byte Test   
            
                                 Test=Gumby()
            
            
            One  of two values will be returned in the variable Test
            as follows:
            
                            0 = Gumby Installed    
                            1 = Gumby NOT Installed
            
            
            Note  that  when  you make the FUNC call to this routine
            that  ALL  interrupts  are  disabled  while the check is
            made.  Upon  return, the interrupt status is restored to
            its  prior  setting.  This  s  done  to prevent possible
            spurious responses from the old and/or new POKEY chips.
            
            
                                   WARNING!
            
            Use  of  the  PROC  SndHi  or  PROC SRHi on non-upgraded
            machines may have unpredictable results!! Unless you are
            100%  *sure*  that  your  program  will  be used only on
            machines  with  Gumby installed, you should always check
            first!
            
            
            
            
                                    Credits
            
            
            These  PROCs were derived from the Public Domain Action!
            Run Time system by Jeff Reister. Thanks again!!
            
                                                                    













